#python 
***
# django-admin commands
- **startproject**: This will create a project directory. containing your manage.py file along with another directory containing the projects important files
- **startapp**: Creates a new Django app in your project. We'll talk about what apps are in more depth soon.


# manage.py commands
[manage.py commands doc](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/django-admin/)
- **runserver**: Starts the Django development HTTP server, to serve your Django app on your local computer.
-  
-  **shell**: Starts a Python interpreter with the Django settings pre-loaded. This is useful for interacting with your application without having to manually load in your Django settings.
-  **dbshell**: Starts an interactive shell connected to your database, using the default parameters from your Django settings. You can run manual SQL queries in this way.
-  **makemigrations**: this will create a script of the models contained in models.py. Any time you add more models, you need to then create a new migration script. 
	- python3 manage.py makemigrations 'appname'
-  **migrate**: Applies migrations generated by the **makemigrations** command into the database. You can also view the migration script in the 'migrations' directory inside of your apps directory
-  **test**: Run automated tests that you have written. You'll use this command in _Chapter 14_, _Testing_.
- **createsuperuser**: this will prompt you to create a superuser admin name, email and password. Note that you wont see the password as you enter it.
***
# activating a virtual environment
- **source envname/bin/activate** : replace "envname" with the name of the folder of your virtual environment. "source" is telling the terminal to read and execute whatever file script you specify. Here the script is 'activate' which is found in the bin directory of the virtual environment.

